
There are 8 types of primitive data types- int, char, boolean, byte, long, float, short, double.
The size of float and double in java is 32 and 64.
Range of byte data in java is -128 to 127. But the byte data type in java is cyclic in nature.


In Java, fields of classes and objects that do not have an explicit initializer and elements of arrays are automatically 
initialized with the default value for their type (false for boolean, 0 for all numerical types, null for all reference types). 
Local variables in Java must be definitely assigned to before they are accessed, or it is a compile error.
class Test {
  int i;
} 
class Main {
  public static void main(String args[]) { 
      Test t = new Test(); 
      System.out.println(t.i);    ---->0
   } 
}



Unlike class members, local variables of methods must be assigned a value to before they are accessed, or it is a compile error.
class Main {   
   public static void main(String args[]) {      
         int t;      
         System.out.println(t);    ----> compiler error
    }   
}

When an array is passed to a method, a reference of the array is received by the method.
Arrays are objects in java. It is a container that holds a fixed number of items of a single type.
arrays are objects, they have members like length. The length member is final and cannot be changed. 
All objects are allocated on heap in Java, so arrays are also allocated on heap.

Java arrays are first class objects and all members of objects are initialized with default values like o, null.




A package is a collection of classes and interfaces.

static keyword
Static methods must only access static data and can call other static methods. Moreover they cannot refer this or super.
Static keyword makes a variable belong to a class,rather than being defined for each instance of the class.

when a function is static, runtime polymorphism doesn't happen.
base class contanis public static show()  ;       and derived contains show method  
Base b = new Derived();
        b.show(); ----> it will call  base class method if method is static else it would call derived method and runtime polymorphism happened.


use of final keyword in Java-
When a class is made final, a sublcass of it can not be created.

In Java, methods are virtual by default
When a method is final, it can not be overridden.
When a variable is final, it can be assigned value only once.


abstract classes in Java
If we derive an abstract class and do not implement all the abstract methods, then the derived class should also be marked as abstract using 'abstract' keyword
Abstract classes can have constructors
A class can be made abstract without any abstract method



compareTo() returns an int value
str.substring(start, end) returns the string from s[start] till s[end - 1]
replace() replaces all the occurrences of the oldcharacter by the newcharacter.

The object created with new keyword during run-time.
Using the new keyword creates an object everytime. Hence, 2 objects are created for first two statement. Next, a string is declared which creates another object. 

toString() is defined in java.lang.Object.
string class belongs to java.lang.
String class has 13 constructors.

floor returns largest integer that is less than or equal to the given number

The system stores parameters and local variables in a stack.

Static cannot be used for constructor.
instance variables declared in a class for the use of all methods of the class 

Implicit return type of constructor is the class object in which it is defined.


inheritance in Java
In Java all classes inherit from the Object class directly or indirectly. The Object class is root of all classes. 
Multiple inheritance is not allowed in Java. 
Unlike C++, there is nothing like type of inheritance in Java where we can specify whether the inheritance is protected,
public or private.


interfaces in java.
An interface can contain following type of members.  ....public, static, final fields (i.e., constants) 
....default and static methods with bodies
A class can implement multiple interfaces.
Many classes can implement the same interface.


Runnable is an interface.

Exception created by try block is caught in catch block.

System class is defined in java.lang.package.

Collection is used to declare core methods in java.

finalize() method is called before garbage collection.
The finalize() method can be called Zero or one times.

>>>> is Zero fill right shift.

JDB is used to find and fix bugs in the program.